* Shrinking World Guides *              -*-muse-*-

**Introduction**

We live in an exciting time of rapid technological advancement. Every
month new products change the landscape of what is possible and what
is practical. Shrinking-world.org tracks these changes and can help
you spot emerging trends.

Shrinking World Guides provide you with tips for how to thrive in the
modern world.

The focus of these articles is applying technologies to simplify your
life. Some small changes will make things a lot easier for you. Here
you will find pointers that help you use technology to solve
real-world problems.

Shrinking World Guide is a web site, and online book dedicated to
Technology, Personal Effectiveness, and Leadership. These important
topics are interesting in their own right, but they are also
synergistic.

You can also save this entire content for off-line reading. Just
select 'Entire Book' from the top of the page to get the whole book as
a single web page. You can save this page and later read it without
being connected to the internet.

The content is organized as a series of three major topics. The
Technology part covers emerging technology that is likely to affect
your everyday life. Maximize your overall enjoyment by increasing your
personal effectiveness.

Take on greater leadership to spread your influence.  Make the world a
better place by changing the one area that you control.  Yourself!


**Author**

Mark Seaman is an author, inventor, and software developer.  He has
spent a lifetime trying to understand complex systems.  His unique
vantage point on what makes systems work and how they break can also
be applied to people.

[[images/Mark.Seaman.200.jpg]]

Learn more at http://MarkSeaman.org/

