* How To Use This Guide *                -*-muse-*-

There are four central topics that appear off on the initial home page
of each guide. Each top-level topic is further expanded. All the other
topics on this site are detailed breakdowns from one of these central
topics. This gives you a quick way to find the topics that you are
most interested in.

Starting with central topics means that everything written has a
consistent place to fit. Each topic is composed into the four related
detailed themes. This leads to a very balanced discussion of the
related areas.

Many of the topics published on this site were originally written for
other venues. As topics are detailed from other more general ones, the
previous writing is used as a basis for filling in many of the holes
in the discussion.

Any articles that were previously published in other venues are
updated for the target audience of Shrinking World Guide. This often
means a complete rewrite while preserving ideas from the previous
writing.

Each topic that is described in Shrinking World Guide is written to be
complete. There may be more detail desired by the reader but each
topic can be understood on it's own. In this way the website is fully
complete all of the time.

There are, however, many more interesting things to say about each of
the topics there is additional detail that could be added in every
area. So in this sense, Shrinking World Guide will never be
completed. Stating this another way -- the web site is usable today
but over time will become much more so
