* My Perfect Life *                 -*-muse-*-

Here is a powerful exercise.  Sit down an describe your ideal life
situation of three years from now.  This is not a plan but a target.
What would you life your life to be like in three years?

Why three years?  It is close enough that it demands immediate
action. But there is also enough time to accomplish something
meaningful. A five year goal may not be very realistic because there
is a feeling that anything in possible.  A one year goal, on the other
hand, is so immediate that it is not possible to dream.

Three years is enough time to create meaningful change.  The question
is, "What direction do you want the change to be in?".  This should be
an expression of your values.  What things drive you at your core?

At this point in my life I value autonomy, mastery, and purpose.
These three core values were first articulated for me in the book
"Drive", by Daniel Pink.  But they have resonated with me for a long time.

A target for my life three years from now, would need to embrace all
three of these dimensions. Before describing the ideal situation,
let's explore each of these three dimensions.

**Autonomy**

For much of my life I had to work to meet the expectations of others.
This was a natural consequence of having responisbility for the
welfare of my family.  Now that they are grown I am able to take on
more professional risks.

I have also spent thirty years building technical experience and
financial strength to weather the inevitable turmoil to come.  Life is
what happens when you are busy making other plans.

Having consistently invested for three decades has put me in a strong
bargaining position from a career, financial, and relational
viewpoint.  Now it is time to experience the benefit of that.

I want a life situation that lets me choose what I work on, when I
work, and who I work with.  I love thinking about projects and intend
to work hard on them.  But this must be internally motivated rather
than forced by the expectations of others.

I have worked hard to acheive this position, and now I am already in a
position to control the terms of by carreer.  The biggest challenge
for me is to not sell this freedom for some other benefit.

**Mastery**

I see myself as an inventor, software developer, and author.  From
childhood I have been facinated by inventing things.  I love learning
and teaching others.  My whole adult life has been a quest for
acheiving mastery of the process of developing software.

Over the last few years, I have been making more time to write.
Reading is a very important part of my life.  I have the largest
personal library of anyone I know.  As I learn more I feel compelled
to pass that knowledge on to others.

Over the last few years I have begun to develop daily practices of
writing. I have been learning more about the process of writing and
how to tell a good story.  Someday I hope to be a stong writer with a
following of people who anticipate the next update.

I love computers (except when they break).  Software development is an
intensely human activity.  It is a chance to create an entire world
inside of a computer.  I have been very facinated by the mechanics of
the process of software creation.  I want to thoroughly understand and
teach what makes great software.

**Purpose**

I think that purpose is about serving others.  It is about meeting the
needs of someone else.  Sure we have to meet our own needs but that is
not enough.  We each must have a feeling that we are producing more
than we are consuming.

At the end of my life I must be able to point to my career and see
that I contributed much more than I was ever paid.  I must be able to
look at the lives of the people that loved me most and realize that
their lives were much fuller for knowing me.

Finally purpose for me is about knowing that I have changed the
world. I need to know that things that I have said have been heard,
and that things that I have done have made a difference.

This comes to the issue of influence.  Have I led others to a deeper
understanding of truth?  Are others inspired by my example to a
greater level of sacrifice?  These are the questions that cause me to
lay awake at night.
