* An Easy Writing Method *                 -*- muse -*-

Put an end to boring writing.  Use a microbook to deliver your ideas
in a way that keeps people coming back for more.  Here is a fresh
approach to developing content that is worth reading.

A Microbook is a innovative idea for creating and publishing of an
electronic book. It relies on modern tools and techniques for
producing materials in an electronic world.

A microbook is built around an outline for a single topic. The
recommended structure it to break the main topic into four roughly
balanced topics.  And then break each of them into four more.  This
allows you to describe 21 specific parts (1 + 4 + 16 = 21) of your
idea and still have a very well organized progression for the reader.

The structure of a microbook is defined by the outline.  The content
is defined by the individual articles.  Each article is crafted to
tell a story that should be understood without reading any of the
other content. But because the outline was constructed first the
articles should be even more meaningful when read in context.

The best way to create a microbook is to jump right into the
outline. What is the big idea that you want to tell?  What stories
will illustrate your main points?  Develop a good solid outline.  This
typically takes about an hour, for a subject that has already been
rattling around in your mind.

Once you have your outline, put it away for a week.  When you come
back to it you may have a fresh viewpoint with new insights on the
subject.  Does this still seem worth pursuing or are there better
opportunities for you?

With your structure in place, now is a good time to think about
drama.  How can you tell your story in a way that holds the readers
interest?  How are your readers lead by a sense of anticipation or
even danger?
