* Reduce Fear of Failure *                 -*-muse-*-

Many of us are reluctant to take action because we are afraid we might
fail. By modifying the goal we can avoid the string of failure
altogether.  We often set out big goals with pass/fail outcomes.

Let me illustrate with an example.  Let's say that we need to buy a
new car.  One way to approach it is to assume that we already have all
of the information that we need, and that the next step is to get a
car.  We go to a specific dealer and expect to be driving off the lot
in a beautiful new car that won't break the budget.

The failure here is with our expectations, not with our ability.  We
assume that the task is probably easy and will not require that much
energy.  However, many important things in real life are hard and
require an enormous amount of energy.

You cannot get married, raise kids, buy a house, get a job, or buy a
car as an event.  These are huge goals, or rather, outcomes of
accomplishing many goals.  The problem is that if you believe that any
one of these thing can be done easily then you approach it with the
wrong mindset.

A happier way is to assume that the eventual outcome that you want is
built on achieving smaller, more realistic, goals.  In our car
example, you should think about investigating on-line/dealer sales,
decide on financing, investigate car selection, decide on impact with
the insurance, and and vacation plans.

Any goal that starts with "learn about" is sure to succeed.  This
eliminates the fear of failure.  You cannot fail to learn something.
You might not like what you learn.  But that is a different issue.

Once you are fully informed about the situation you are much more
likely to succeed at the ultimate goal.  Consider your actions to be
experiments that will give you enough understanding to take more
actions.  This will prevent you from walking into a lot of blind
alleys.
