* Ideas Are Currency *                 -*-muse-*-

Ideas are the fuel that runs our modern society.  They are the
currency of trade and the prize at the end.  Lawyers refer to them as
Intellectual Property.  They propell businesses to succuess and hold
some governments in power while letting others fall.

There is no question about it.  Ideas are important.  Why then, don't
we spend more time thinking about how to get more ideas, or cultivate
the ones that we have?

I think fear is the main obstacle.  We believe that ideas are to be
prottected and guarded.  After all, if we share our idea then someone
else might profit from it.  So we hide it away, hoping that someday we
will be able to reap untold millions off it.

This scarcity mindset fails to recognize two truths. First, your idea
is born in the needs that you perceive.  It is very likely that
someone else in your exact position will come up with precisely the
same idea as you.  You idea is almost certainly not unique.

Second, ideas must be tempered by others.  You need the interaction of
other minds thinking about the same issues. What you think is a fully
formed idea may be quickly revealed to be half-baked when you try to
put it into use. The remaining baking is best done by the
contributions of others.

Great ideas are best developed in a team environment, or sometimes
a competitive one. We make the biggest gain when the interactions of
several people help to evaluate, extend, and refine the ideas.

I recently read about Google and the amazing environment that was
created at Stanford University.  This setting is undoubtedly the most
nurturing environment ever created for the advancement of
technology ever.  Many entire industries have their roots in this amazing
foundry of ideas.

The internet has also given us new opportunities to help people
develop ideas.
