* The Idea Lifecycle *                 -*- muse -*-

A great idea is worth pursuing

 1. **Capture** - record new ideas as they come
 2. **Plan** - create a map for worthwhile ideas
 3. **Learn** - find out what others already know
 4. **Connect** - understand connection to other ideas
 5. **Create** - make an initial draft of the core concept
 6. **Refine** - optimize, extend, and test the idea
 7. **Automate** - create a reproducible version
 8. **Share** - maximize the value to others

**Ways to use the lifecycle**

An idea goes through many distinct phases.  At each phase the idea
morphs and grows.  It changes shape and takes on new forms.  Ideas
take cultivating and time to grow properly.  An idea that is rushed
from conception to maturity never really has a chance to succeed.

**Capture**

The first phase is where the key concept is recorded.  Ideas happen
all of the time.  But ideas that are not capture of routinely lost.
It is essential to have a robust way to quickly capture ideas as they
occur. 

**Plan**

A great idea deserves a plan.  Map out how you think this idea could
be used.  Also give some thought to how much energy you think this
idea is worth.  A great idea may be worth devoting a large amount of
energy to.  Most ideas are worth dabbling in but not clearing your
schedule for.

**Learn**

Is this a new idea?  What have others tried?   Is there a book that
you can get that will tell you everything you need to know?  Or are
you on your own to invent something unique?  Is there a business
opportunity or an innovation that is useful to others?  What resources
can you use to learn more?

**Connect**

No idea lives in a vacuum; it is always connected with others.  This
phase is about truly understanding these connections.  What other
interests are related to this idea?  What other projects can be joined
with this project?  What other goals can be pursued while following
this path?

**Create**

Now is the time to make your idea concrete.  Express the idea in a way
that is compelling.  Limit the initial implementation so severely that
you capture only the core idea.  No embellishments are allowed at this
point. 

**Refine**

Now develop the idea further by adding on additional features.  For a
software project add only those features that you need to address
pressing concerns.  For writing add stories that explain why you feel
passionate about the subject.  Craft your presentation to maximize the
impact. 

**Automate**

Make your results reproducible, first for yourself, and then for
others. This is the stage that you work on the process that enabled
you to get the result the first time.  Reflect on what exactly you
learned that would allow you to acheive the same result with less
effort. 

**Share**

Now is the time to get you finished work out to others.  What is the
best way to present your work so that it can have the maximum benefit?
Until now you have avoided getting others involved.  Now is the time
to create a pull for your project.
