* Microbook Writing                -*- muse -*-

I searched for a writing method that that would give me predictably
compelling results.  My writing suffered from a stale, stuffy, and
clinical tone, as if I was a medical examiner probing my subject
matter looking for clues. 

In his book, "Weinberg on Writing", Gerald Weinberg describes what he
calls the field stone method.  In this technique the author is always
looking for "stones" with which to build a wall. You might spend time
collecting, polishing, sorting, and fitting them. Each of these has
its own goals and activities, and you move between them throughout a
project. 

Many of his ideas have been incorporated into the Micro Books
concept. By using this approach you will not be at the mercy of
"inspiration". You will work as you desire on different facets of the
project. Sometimes you will be crafting an article, telling a story,
building an outline, or just stocking your library with great snippets
of wisdom.

A micro book is an electronic book written to be formatted in a wide
variety of ways.  It is has a strong cohesion around a specific topic,
like a book.  The length may vary.  The target length for a finished
Micro Book is about 6000 words in 21 topic areas.

The Micro Book uses the 4x4 method of outlining to break a subject
into four main areas and then to further break each of them into four
more. This allows for the subject matter to be explore in both
breadth and depth. The topic pyramid acts as an organization structure
for the story telling.

Each article should address a specific topic.  It should make sense by
itself and when combined with the other topics in the outline.  Each
topic should be about 300 words and tell a story.  Think of each
article as a short story.
