* Project Phases *                 -*-muse-*-

The development of an idea has a [[IdeaLifecycle][lifecycle]] that allows it to evolve
over a period of time.  This lifecycle is described as eight stages.
When developing a project around an idea we can group the project into
four development stages.  Each stage can be built around a pair of
lifecyle phases.

**Inception**

This project phase is where the idea first comes together.  An idea is
a unique and interesting connection between other ideas. It does not
exist in isolation.  

During inception the idea is first captured and the primary
connections are created.  It is evaluated to see if it is worth
pursuing any further.

A simple plan emerges for how the benefits of this new idea can be
applied to problems that must be solved.  The core concept must be
tested to see if it is viable in a large range of contexts or if the
big idea can only be applied in a very narrow situation.  This plan
should also contain an estimate of the return on investment.

**Exploration**

New ideas must become real.  A prototype of the idea, or a rough draft
of the writing must be created that can be experimented on.  This may
or may not evolve into the final product.  The important part of this
stage is to generate a thorough undertanding of the key aspects and
limitations of the idea.

The goal of this stage is learning not production.  In order to
promote a new idea you must know what other people have tried and why
it didn't work.  You must also know when your new idea will work and
when it will not produce the desired result.  Every idea will work
within a context.

**Development**

Now it is time to cook your idea down to its core.  What simple
concept are you adding to what has already been done?  This phase is
about teaching someone else in the simplest possible terms.

I've written a lot of patent applications.  The goal of a patent
application is to allow lawyers to defend the legal rights of an
invention. They are written to be obscure and difficult to understand.

Our goal is to communicate an idea to the largest possible audience.
Minimize buzzwords and assumptions about someones current
understanding.  Use simple words and simple concepts to explain your
breakthrough.

**Replication**

A great idea only has power when someone else uses it.  Ideas should
not be horded.  The goal is to get the idea to replicate.  A great
idea produces value for everyone.  We all win by freely sharing.
Ideas are about connections and so they naturally die if kept by
themselves.

During the replication phase your only goal is to make people aware of
your idea and willing to use it.  Adoption is the key.  If it is a
business idea then you will be able to reap a monetary benefit from
being there first.

In an ecconmonic race, connection always wins over protection.
Defending so anything that has no true innovation is riddiculous, but
it happens all the time.
