* Story Telling *             -*- muse -*-

A lot of technical writing is boring.  It is dispassionate and
clinical.  It is abstract, with no sense of drama or suspense.  By
using a some simple rules, you cannot avoid people falling asleep when
they read your stuff.

Everyone likes a story! Life is filled with drama.  If you are writing
a non-fiction article then you are attempting to confront and overcome
some problem.  Let the drama emerge.

Help your readers understand what is at stake before you show the
solution. Give them a sense of jeopardy and risk.  What happens if
this problem doesn't get solved?  What is the result of not
understanding how to do this new thing?

Always tell the "Why" before you tell the "How".  Speak about false
solutions and deadends.  Lead your readers down the blind alleys that
you have already considered.  Show them what doesn't work and why.

The setup is everything.  When you get to the climax you can bring
your readers along with you.  If you have properly built the suspense,
then it should be a relief that there is finally a solution that
works.

Doesn't this take a lot of words?  No... think short story, not
novel.  I aim for 300 words.  Later you can always go back and expand
any article to 500 words by adding a new twist in the story. This
article is exactly 300 words.

Shorter articles get read more often than longer ones.  Compelling
stories are easy to tell. Set up the problem and show how it can be
solved. Shorter articles force you to think about what is critical and
what is not.
 
Try this approach three times and reflect on how it works for you.  If
you write on a regular basis, you will have this opportunity very
soon.

See also [[Home]]
