* Influence *                 -*-muse-*-

The most important thing you do is to leave an imprint on another person.
Think about your purpose being related to the legacy that you want to
leave behind.  What do you want to be remembered for?  How will your
life have changed the world that you live in?

It may be worthwhile to explore different aspects of your purpose
before you can truly understand it.  Trail and error is often the
non-direct root to discovery.

Without understanding the meaning of your life it will be impossible
to train, prepare, build, and communicate effectively.  Each of these
actions are required if you really hope to build a lasting legacy.

Inheritance is something that you leave to someone else; but legacy is
the imprint that you leave on another person.  Your legacy is more
about the impact that you have on other and less about the work that
you do, or the things that you accumulate.

Your fundamental purpose in life needs to be to build a legacy.  We
all know people who have spent years accomplishing goals and gathering
wealth. But at the end of your life the real question will be the
impact that you have left on others.

Have you inspired others to carry on what you have started?  Have you
built relationships of mutual commitment and trust?  Or have you
sought personal gain at the expense of others?

These are the types of questions that help you find purpose.
Purposeful living begins when you have honest answers to them.  A
legacy is the result of ordering your life according to your purpose.

A person of influence is almost always a person with a purpose.  There
is something about having a purpose that attracts followers.  People
want to follow someone that knows where they are going.  Find someone
that is going where you want to go and ask to go with them.
