* Learning *                 -*-muse-*-

Learning enables many new opportunities.  It opens doors that were
previously closed. 

People often feel relieved to be out of school because that means that
they do not have to learn anymore.  This could not be more misguided.
In reality, learning is one of life's great joys.

The end of school is simply an opportunity to learn the things that we
care about most.  We get to set the agenda. We get to define the pace.

Learning is a lifestyle.  It is an approach to life that starts with
an understanding that we don't know everything.  Each day is a chance
to learn and grow.  We embrace new experiences and fully appreciate
old ones.

Some learning happens automatically by observing everyday life.  This
can be very valuable.  It requires taking the time to appreciate the
world around us.  Ask question about why things are the way they are
and you will find some surprising answers.

Other learning requires planning and diligence on your part.  Consider
making a list of the interests that you would like to learn more
about.  Are you interested in learning a new language, playing a new
sport, gourmet cooking, or dancing? By committing these desires to
paper they become more concrete.

Set aside time to pursue the things that interest you most.  Don't
worry about how to be rewarded for your learning, just enjoy the act
itself. As an over-achiever you can get a thrill from making progress.

True learning is a process.  It requires time and energy.  You won't
master new ideas or new skills without making an investment.  Mastery
requires practice.  You must persist long enough to get to the
breakthrough. 

Learning is an end in itself.  You will realize that most of your
hobbies are really based around learning objectives.  You are
interested in something and wish to master it.  Learning is truly one
of life's great joys!



