* Produce *                -*-muse-*-

Have you ever noticed that different people accomplish far different
results?  In a typical work group of five to ten people, the results
of the highest performer are at least twice the level of the lowest. 

What accounts for this astounding difference in performance?  Some
people are fully engaged and committed, while others are simply
logging time.

There are certain things that every high performers does. In order to
maximize your work contribution you must do the following:

  1. Focus on important things
  2. Overcome barriers
  3. Reflect and adapt

Study people you admire most.  Observe how they manage their work.
You are sure to find these characteristic behaviors.  Examining the
work of the lowest performers you will notice that the low performers
lack these same behaviors.

High performers focus on important things (and only important things).
Low performers do not have a strong sense of priority.  They will work
on the next thing that comes to mind.  High performers control their
work flow and are constantly reevaluating priorities.

Every job has obstacles blocking the goal.  Successful people are
resourceful; they consistently find ways to remove barriers.  Don't
ever allow yourself to be stuck when you hit a roadblock.  Instead,
find a creative way to work around each challenging problem.

Another behavior that can always be found with successful people in
the ability to reflect and adapt.  Humans have a unique capacity for
self awareness.  We can review a task and think about our
performance. This leads to optimizing the task over time.

High performers set aside time to reflect on performance and
effectiveness. This allows adjustments to be made.  Take time to
reflect on what you do and how you do it.  Then make small but
permanent adjustments to how you accomplish your work to make it
easier, more effective, and less stressful.

