* Books that shaped my life *                 -*-muse-*-

Most books have a few good ideas to offer.  I read a lot and almost
every book has some kind of impact on my thinking.  The books on this
list are in an entirely different class.  They are packed full of
great ideas that cause a fundamental shift in thinking.  The
application is immediate and comprehensive.  They contain ideas that
shift your paradigms.

I recommend that you read each of these books, study them, and get
your friends to discuss the material with you.

**Half Time**   
 by Bob Buford

We live a time of unprecedented affluence and longevity.  In America,
this has created a typical situation that allows people to live beyond
their need for accumulating more.  How much is enough for you?  When
you have what you need, what will you do to give your life meaning?
How can you move beyond success to significance.

The book wrestles with these issues and has some fairly radical ideas.
The primary theme is that you will only be fulfilled when you learn
how to serve others.  Then the primary question is how to best make a
difference with the resources and opportunity that you have.  No easy
answers, but some great questions to grapple with.

**Getting Things Done**
 by David Allen

One common source of stress that all of us face is based on the
pressures to take care of the myriad of details that make up our
life. This is compounded by not having a system that we can fully
trust that reminds us of what needs to be done. David Allen outlines a
system that significantly reduces our overall stress by capturing and
organizing everything that needs to get done.

This book is a huge benefit to anyone that juggles many priorities at
work and home. You can build a simple and personalized system that
manages all of your appointments, tasks, reminders, and new
information that you want to track. A system replaces trying to
remember what needs to happen next.

**7 Habits of Highly Effective People**  
 by Stephen Covey

This classic book is on becoming a more effective person. Stephen
Covey defined effectiveness as the ability to get things done as well
and building relationships. 

Focusing on the long-term impact of everything you do lets you
accomplish your short-term goals without sacrificing future
opportunities. Win at both the tasks and relationships with others.

This allows more productive activities in the future. The primary
theme is that if you want to become more effective, you must devote
energy to working on your character.

This book is a must-read for everyone. Many of the principles are very
widely discussed within modern work environments.  But it is worth
going to the source to get the complete picture.

**Four-Hour Work Week** 
 by Timothy Ferris

One of the most intriguing books I have read in a while is by Tim
Ferris, called the "4-hour Work Week".  It covers to the topic of not
just working less, but more importantly, getting a lot more from life.

The fundamental premise of the book is that you can achieve greater
results and work less.  This is the result of focusing on the few things
that actually produce the best results for us.

He outlines specific tactics for how to eliminate the waste that takes
over most of our days.  After we have pruned off all but the essential
tasks then it is time to automate.  This allows the remaining tasks to
be completed with the smallest amount of invested time.

We then use this newfound productivity to create new goals that are
based on life dreams.  For Tim a lot of these goals involve travel.
He uses the flexibility of being able to work from anywhere in the
world to create a lifestyle where he does.

As you read the "4-hour Work Week" you will stumble upon some real
insights that will change how you perceive your work life.  This will
cause you to change part of how you do work.  The book must be
adjusted for your work context rather than applied directly.  But
this effort will certainly pay off for you.

**Now, Discover Your Strengths**  
 by Marcus Buckingham

Everyone has a super-power. We are are created in such a way that we
are predisposed to excel in certain areas. These are our
strengths. Unfortunately, the research has shown that the vast
majority of people do not operate primarily in there areas of
strength. They slog it out day after day in jobs they hate doing
things they are no good at.

This book outlines a process for defining your strengths based upon
your ingrained talents. Once you are aware of these talents you can
fully develop them into strengths. This book is a game-changer for
many people.


**Switch** 
 by Chip and Dan Heath

Change is a major part of our lives.  How we deal with change governs
our effectiveness both personally and in working with others.  This
book explores the topic of change in depth.  

It provides a very simple model to apply to everyday situations that
we face.  It presents studies and experiences from quite a broad
spectrum to illustrate the concepts of change.  

It is really easy to read and yet every chapter reveals another great
idea that can be applied immediately.  Reading this book significantly
increased my understanding of the process of change.  

This understanding can be applied to every area of our lives.  This
book helped me think about change differently.  It made me realize the
role of change both personally and professionally.  

This book made me commit to changing personal habits and adopting a
posture of embracing rather than tolerating change.  

On a professional level it gave me insight and tools to help others
change.  Everyone of us wants to make a difference where we work.
This book will allow you to be more effective in doing so.


**Upgrade Your Life**  
 by Gina Trapani

This book shows you how to use computers to optimize a myriad of daily
activities. If is chock-full of great tips and tricks. This is a must
read for any computer geek. 

If you don't like computers then avoid this book. The book contains a
lot of tricks that were published in the Life Hacker blog, which is
also my favorite blog.

Gina is the founder of "Lifehacker.com".  This useful web site is a
constant source of interesting do-it-yourself projects.  If you like
to mess around with things then Lifehacker.com is right for you.

Much of the content in this book first appeared on Lifehacker.  This
is a different way to present information that allows you to get the
most out of the material.

I've been able to use many of the specific tips outlined here.  But
maybe the largest impact is the way of thinking about technology.
Instead of being frustrated with technology it is time to take control
of the things that make a difference.  

You will find a lot of great ideas here.
