* Build Support Systems *                 -*-muse-*-

If you use computers all day long as a part of your job, you need to
think about how you use them strategically.  Most people can save at
least 30% of their time spent on the computer.  If you spend 30 hours
or more a week you can expect to save around ten hours each week by
being clever about your computer tasks.

This guide will show you the steps that you should take to gain this
savings.  Of course you will need to spend some time up front to setup
your tools.  But the one-time investment will continue paying
dividends for years to come.

The first step is to adopt a viewpoint of solving problems in a more
general way.  When you encounter a task that you commonly do, think
about what kind of tool would let you side-step this problem in the
future.  This mind set will serve you in almost any situation.  You
can see repetitive tasks a areas where your process must be improved.

We will look at implementing this approach in four different essential areas:

 * information system
 * learning system
 * planning system
 * communication system

We will be looking at each of these key systems and walking through
the process of understanding the core needs and building tools that
help you work at peak efficiency.  Along the way we will explore some
general principles that we help you improve your work style and
specific trade-offs that are unique to each of these systems.

Let's start with an overview of each of these key systems that we all
use and discuss the overall approach to improve them.

Your information system deals with how you manage knowledge.
Computers are great tools to manage information, but like any tool
they require some skill and training to get them to work properly.
Sometimes computers can be a necessary evil that we tolerate only
because we need them so badly.

Your computer can actually be a huge point of leverage when dealing
with information.  This guide will show you how to setup an
information system that work much more efficiently that a hodge-podge
collection of less efficient systems.  The goal is to have all of your
knowledge accessible from a single system that has many smaller pieces
that work together.  When your system is working you should be able to
locate any information that you have within seconds, not minutes.  You
should also be able to guarantee that no disaster will destroy your
data.

Learning is an important part of any job that dealing with knowledge.
We expand our usefulness by learning new skills and capabilities.  You
need a system that will support your learning activities and allow you
to track your progress.  You need an easy and instantly accessible
system to capture ideas for new books, articles, internet sites, etc..

This guide will show you how to start with a very simple system and
expand it as your needs grow.  Many people don't know where to start
in establishing their learning goals.  We will walk though that as
well.

Your planning system is how you keep your activities on track.
Everybody has a system that they use.  You can have a very effective
personal planning system that is still very simple.  In fact the most
effective system must be simple.  Otherwise, it will fall into disuse.
A system that doesn't work is worse than no system at all.

Your communication system deals with how you interact with others and
the tools that you use to communicate.  Twenty years ago the primary
tool was the telephone, ten year ago email.  This year it also
contains a collection of social networking and messaging tools.

You need to make sense of these new tools in order to stay competitive
in today's world.  At the same time these new tools can ruin your
effectiveness if they become a constant distraction and interruption.
We will talk about methods for controlling the level of connectedness
that you need to be most effective.  In the modern world, it is
essential that you control your level of access to others.  If not you
will be buried in a sea of over-communication.

A tool gives you leverage.  It multiplies your efforts.  Selecting and
creating the right tools can make you many times more efficient than
you would be without them.

So why don't people pay more attention to tools?  The answer is
usually simple.  You are too busy doing the task today.  You don't
have the time or the energy to invest in setting up a tool that will
save you effort tomorrow.

This can be a self-perpetuating reality.  We feel that were are
running behind so we attempt to run harder until we drop from
exhaustion.

Another alternative is to view every task as an opportunity to set up
a better way.  When you approach your work with a mind-set of
improvement you see the many opportunities for improvement.

People that build tools get more done.  Commit 20% of your time
improving how you do things.  No matter what the specific details are
in your job, there is opportunity for refining how you go about your
work.

If you aren't currently spending any time improving how you work then
you should probably start by committing to 10%.  You will find that
each improvement that you make lowers your stress and gives you more
time to work on important tasks.

Build your own personal productivity platform! Some people are a lot
more effective at getting things done because they employ a personal
productivity platform. This gives them the technology for
accomplishing and tracking things in real-time. You can set up your
own, by giving some consideration to the following areas:

**Task management** - How do you track your upcoming appointments? How
do you track all of the open projects with reminders about what needs
to be done next?

**Communication management** - How do you stay in contact with people?
How can you be more systematic and efficient about electronic
communication?

**Information management** - How can you guarantee that your data will
not be lost (either through an accident, or by not being able to find
it in a timely way).

When you have solid answers to each of these questions you have
created an effective personal productivity platform.
