* Develop *                 -*-muse-*-

Constant innovation is the life-blood of any organization, allowing
you to put practices in place that create a steady cycle of
improvement. The process of innovation must be incremental, proven,
and fully applied.

Improvements should be applied incrementally to what you are already
doing; don't apply radical changes that disrupt your business. Figure
out the smallest change that will get you the desired benefit. Select
your area of innovation and experiment with ideas for how to make an
improvement.

Changes should be applied one at a time. This allows the effect of the
change to be fully tested. If many changes are applied at once it will
be difficult to understand which change is responsible for a certain
impact. Some ideas will not produce the desired results. Reject these
and keep only the ones that make a measurable improvement.

Once you have established a better way to do something you should
follow through with implementing the change. If an idea is proven to
produce a meaningful improvement in the way that your business
functions, then it must be used everywhere, all the time. It does no
good to discover a great new idea and then not apply it. The change
should be incorporated as the new baseline for your operation.

Now it is time for you to apply these principles to your
business. Identify the area that you would most like to see
improved. What one idea could you try that might make a difference?
Are there any alternative ideas that have more promise? What is the
smallest change you could test? How could this be done as an
experiment so that you can quickly prove out the idea?

Once you have proven the benefits of your idea, make the commitment to
always do it the new way. This is now your new standard operating
procedure. This must be communicated to everyone who is affected by
the change.
