* Everyone has a super-power *                 -*-muse-*-

Each person has a unique blend of personal characteristics.  These are
not shared by anyone else in the same exact combination that you
possess.

There are some opportunities that are a perfect match for your
specific personality.  Great satisfaction comes from finding a fit
between your personality and your opportunities.  But the corollary is
also true.  If you don't find a good match then you will always
struggle.

Beyond finding a fit for your personality, you can also refine your
personal skills.  You can improve your overall effectiveness in every
aspect of your life.  This is best done by applying a set of
principles and practices that are proven to work.

The following principles will help you to become more effective in
your everyday life.

  * Optimize long-term benefit
  * Eliminate rework
  * Make it automatic
  * Don't ignore problems
  * Negotiate expectations
  * Simplify everything
  * Eliminate distractions
  * Prioritize
  * Build incrementally
  * Learn from others

We all want to get things done more effectively, but are worried that
focusing on efficiency will actually increase our stress
level. Building your own process of personal innovation will
lower your stress while increasing your output.

Learn to make small incremental improvements rather than big ones.
Always view a big change as a series of small steps.  Each step will
make you more effective, while maintaining the best practices that
already give you great results.

Effectiveness comes from being more selective about how you spend your
time.  A great place to start the journey is in simplifying your life
to only focus on this things that are of the most value.  Spend some
time evaluating the things that are the most critical to your success
and happiness. Build your life around the things that truly matter to
you.
