* Learn, Grow, Produce *                 -*-muse-*-

An over-achiever's guide to fulfillment

Some people are born with a desire to succeed.  If you have this, you
immediately recognize what I'm talking about.  You may find it hard to
relax because even your leisure time is filled with structure and
purpose. 

This attribute is both a character strength and a flaw at the same
time. People wired for achievement can accomplish great things since
they have a tremendous reservoir of energy for the things that they
feel are important.  

The dark side of this personality trait is that their self-worth is
often directly tied to what they do. Accomplishing a meaningful
milestone produces flood of well-being.  But this has a relatively
short half-life. Soon the thrill of past achievements wears off an the
achiever is out looking for the next fix.

I first realized that I was wired this way when reading Marcus
Buckingham's book, "Now, Discover Your Strengths".  He outlines major
personality traits discovered in years of research by the Gallop
Organization. He provides a test to measure your top attributes from a
list of thirty four.

A profile is given for each of the attributes which includes a
snapshot from the persons experience.  An achiever starts every day
with a mental list of accomplishment.  Satisfaction is determined by
what you do today.  Yesterday doesn't really count.

I had two reactions to this diagnosis.  At first I was pleased. Of
course we would want to have a greater motivation to succeed than my
colleagues. This is the wave that has carried my crowning career
accomplishments.

My second reaction came as a response to being doomed to run on the
treadmill.  Why can't I just be like a normal person?  Why do I have
to be doing something useful all of the time?

Over time, I have come to appreciate the different aspects of this
personality trait and the ramifications that it has for everything.
In this article I want to share these insights with you.

