* Plan *                 -*-muse-*-

The planning stage of constant innovation is where we actually commit
to the specific improvements. The three goals of planning are to
establish objectives, prioritize the possible solutions, and breakdown
the specific tasks for the projects that you intend to implement.

Every project should have a clearly specified goal in order to
proceed. What benefit do you need from this project? What does
complete success look like? What degree of partial success are you
willing to live with? Can this project be accomplished incrementally
or is it 'all or nothing'? Forcing yourself to create clear objectives
will prune out some bad ideas before you get too far.

There are always a lot of projects that compete for your time. It is
important for you to prioritize them based on a cost-benefit
analysis. Select the projects that give you the biggest return on
investment. This requires you to do the thinking up front. What is the
likely benefit of this project? How will it be measured? What is it
likely to cost? What is the likelihood of success?

The tactical planning is usually the simplest planning step. Take the
bigger goal and produce a series of smaller goals that represent real
progress along the way. The effort required to achieve these
milestones can be much easier to estimate than the entire goal. This
greatly lowers the risk that you will not achieve the desired result.

The milestones within the tactical plan also give you a way to measure
your progress. During the implementation phase of your project you
should make adjustments to your plan based on the milestones that you
have met or missed. This is extremely valuable feedback to you as a
planner. Over time your plans will become more accurate.
