* Read *                 -*-muse-*-

We are surrounded by great books.  There is currently enough
information available that every man, woman, and child has 16 feet of
book shelf space that is completely unique to them.  In other words,
there is far more information created than will ever be read by
anyone.

In this environment it is critical to become a master at selection.
How do you select the information that will make your life better,
from all of the other information that is available?

I recommend the 'pass it on' test.  When I read I pretend to be an
agent for my dopple-ganger in a parallel universe.  This person is
interested in the exact same subjects that I am but may not be exposed
to the same media.

Some information is worth passing on, but much is not.  When you find
a gem add it to your reading list.  If you find a great blog book mark
it.  If you discover a book that gives you key insights then put it on
a list.

Next, find other sources of information that are connected to what you
found interesting.  Does this book or blog reference others?  Are
there a group of people that always write about interesting things?

Information is connected together in pools.  Once you find a
repository that you like then you have discovered and source of future
enjoyment.  A author that you enjoy is very likely to produce other
works that you will also enjoy.  This is something that you must
exploit to maximize your learning.

The flip side of this is also true.  Avoid information that does not
ring your bell.  Use the 'three strikes' rule to eliminate items from
your diet that don't give you what you want?  Life is too short to
waste it reading garbage.
