* Teach *                 -*-muse-*-

Teaching happens when you take and understanding you have and transfer
it so that is useful to someone else.  Teaching is always accompanied
by learning.  Otherwise it is a useless activity.  All teaching should
start with a goal of what you wish to accomplish.  What understanding
or behavior will result?

Next plot out the level of detail that you want to share.  If possible
start with a fairly high-level understanding before going into several
levels of detail.  Often, people need a chance to digest the
information at one level before going deeper.

To help me organize thoughts around a subject that I want to teach I
follow what I call a '4 x 4' process. This starts by identifying the
top four most important areas of a topic.  Each of these areas is then
broken down in another four topics.  If you are writing about a
subject this allows you to describe the 21 (1+4+16) most important
topics on any subject.

This process forces you to weed out a lot of material to focus on just
the most important ideas and concepts.  This technique often gives you
a great amount of clarity on a subject that you wish to master.

The is no better learning than teaching.  For you to teach someone
else you must be very familiar with the subject.  The preparation for
teaching is itself the best way for you to learn a new subject or
master and old one.

Seek to use simple terminology rather than technical jargon.  If you
must rely on big words then you may just be repeating what you read,
rather than truly grasping it.  Try to work with the ideas until you
can explain it to someone that is smart, but ignorant on the subject.

Learning requires passion, but so does teaching.  Follow the areas
that you are most passionate about.  Seek out opportunities to share
your knowledge with others.  Find other people that share your passion
and enlighten each other more.  Most of all enjoy yourself.
