* Vision *                 -*-muse-*-

A great leader is able to paint a picture of the future that is
compelling.  Urgency is created by seeing the potential that
exists. This can be either a bright future or the risk of what may
happen.

The response to a compelling vision is immediate action. When you have
a clear picture of where you need to be, then people can begin to move
in that direction.  A leader knows how to move people.

What do you see in the future that demands a response today?  What is
the most important thing that needs to be communicated?  Having a
clear understanding of the future risks and opportunities is a vital
part of the leaders job.

Are you clearly communicating what you believe to others? Others
around you should resonate with the message that you present.  Teach
them about both opportunities and risks to create a shared
understanding. 

Ask for feedback to help create a common viewpoint on what is
possible. Be clear about the outcome that should be produced.  This
gives people a change to appreciate their contribution to the group's
goals. 

Each person will have a vital part to play.  Your vision should
include aspects of how each member of the group will contribute to the
overall success of the team.

Your vision must be both clear and compelling.  People will not be
able to act effectively to a vision that is clouded by uncertainty.
It is hard to follow a leader that is unsure of where they are going.

The impact of a strong vision on a team can not be overstated.  People
are eager and willing to follow when they know where it will lead
them.  It is impossible to make large sacrifices when you cannot
clearly see what will be gained by it.

Any leader that is wanting the full engagement of their team must
start by laying out a vision of the future.  This is absolutely
essential to create a highly energized group with a strong desire to
win.


