* What Makes A Leader? *                 -*-muse-*-

Many people think of leaders as those with official leadership
positions. While it is true that people with positions of authority
are almost always leaders, it is also possible to demonstrate
leadership without a title. Leadership is primarily about influence,
and you can be a person of influence wherever you are.

People in positions of authority have a special need to influence
others. Trust is the most important ingredient in creating
influence. Leaders who have not gained the trust of others will lack
influence and will exhibit poor leadership. Remember, people will
always follow someone they trust.

Trust is earned over a period of time, and it is impossible to force
someone to trust you. As a result, influence cannot be extracted
merely by holding a position of authority. Therefore, leadership is
something that a person grows into by making decisions that are
beneficial to others.

Once others realize that you truly desire to help them, you will have
influence in their lives. There is no shortcut to influence. You may
be able to force obedience for a while, but you cannot force
influence.

As we begin to understand that leadership is tied to influence we
realize that anyone can lead. The true leaders in any group are the
ones that people listen to and follow. This is not always the person
at the top of the hierarchy.

Positional authority is typically awarded to recognize increased
leadership. The position recognizes, but does not create,
leadership. In most cases, leadership is learned and earned.

You can begin acting today in a way that demonstrates to others that
you care for their welfare. This will definitely result in an increase
of your leadership ability.
