* Write headlines every day *                 -*-muse-*-

I once heard a business coach, Nigel Clayton, give some great counsel:
Imagine that someone is writing a newspaper about your life and
business. What would the headlines look like? Would it be interesting
to read? Every day you should do something worthy of headlines. These
are the things that have strategic importance to your life and your
business. Tactical things must also be done each day, but these have
limited impact and are quickly forgotten.

Strategic decisions are those that have far-reaching
consequences. Each day you should be able to identify at least one
decision that you made that will affect your life a year from now. If
nothing comes to mind, maybe you have been too focused on the tactical
and not enough on the strategic. It is so easy to get caught up in the
day-to-day turmoil that we forget to look at the bigger picture.

It is extremely easy to incorporate the practice of creating daily
headlines into your life. Most of us have a few minutes of planning
time in the morning as we start our day. Simply pause to ask the
question, 'What did I do yesterday for my headline?' This will quickly
bring you to the most important thing that you did of lasting value.

The logical extension of asking what you did, is to ask what you are
planning to do today that will be remembered. This practice does not
take much time, but it does create an opportunity for introspection
and adjustment. I would challenge you to try this simple exercise for
two weeks to see what impact it has for you. Write me and tell me your
story.


