* Thinking *                 -*-muse-*-

How you think dictates to a large extent the quality of your life.  Some people are naturally good
at think through problems and coming up with great solutions.  Here are a few patterns that can help
you in thinking better.

**List limit of 9 items**

Psychological studies have shown that people can only retain up to nine items in short-term memory.
This means that any list where you expect a selection ony works up to nine items.  Longer lists
should be broken into multiple selection lists.  A reasonable list should have five or more items to
be useful.  Nesting can be used to handle more complicated scenarios.

**Minimize mindshare**

Some things we can control and other things we cannot.  Try to make your circle of influence match
your circle of concern.  Decrease the amount of mental energy that you invest in areas where you
have little influence.  Save your energy for the things that you can change.

**Eliminate multitasking**

Your worst enemy is multiple tasks interrupting each other. Focus on one activity as much as
possible until it is completed.  Then go on to the next with equal focus.  It is very easy for us to
spend as much as 50% of our overall time just switching between multiple tasks.  This has become
especially bad in our modern world.  Most people underestimate the cost of multitasking.

**Scheduled thinking**

Consider having a block of time scheduled to think through problems.  Imagine knowing that you could
just file that issue away for 3:00 Thursday.  I recommend that you perform this think time in a
location where you cannot be interrupted.  Start with one hour per week.  You are likely to find
that you need more time, and that it is easily justified by the return that you get.

**Think before you leap**

When confronted with a big decision consider taking both paths.  Imagine trying to live with each of
the alternatives.  Which one seems to carry the least risk?  Which is better in the short term or in
the long term?  What problem might surface?  What does your intuition tell you?

**Brainstorm/organize**

A great way to work out problems is to brainstorm.  This typically involves making a list of various
ideas or impression.  During a brainstorm try to postpone judgment.  Once you have captured a bunch
of ideas you can work on grouping things together.  This is the time to apply some judgment and
pruning.

**Four by four analysis**

In order to think through, a topic try this technique. Break your main topic into four roughly equal
topics.  Then decompose each of them into four more topics.  I found that this technique is
remarkably useful to help me see the interesting aspects of almost any subject. It gives you twenty
one statements that have both breadth and depth that can be explored later.

**Work on only one thing**

Select a single task that will be the most satisfying to have done.  Postpone distractions until
this task is complete. By selecting this task you are saying that this is the most important thing
that you could do right now.  If you feel that a legitimate interruption is likely then limit the
scope of your task to complete it sooner. Then you can focus on another task when needed.

**Use tools that preserve context**

Don't have multiple windows up on your computer (each vying for your attention). When you run an
application, make the window take the full screen. Finish one thought before going on the next.
Turn off email notification, and check it between tasks.  If you don't control your tools they will
control you.  Know what you must do in your job to succeed and create the environment that lets you
focus.  If your job calls for 10 second response time on IM, then play along.  If it is a constant
distraction, turn it off.

**Try new things**

Break your routine occassionally.  Keep a list of random things to do for fun.  At least once a
week, pick a fun thing and do it.  Life is too serious for most of us. Look up an old friend.  Do a
random act of kindness.  Play a practical joke.  Tell someone that you love them.

**Random item from the past**

Imagine having a list of things to think about someday.  Now image doing a random selection from
that list.  This would give you a miscellaneous topic to ponder for a few minutes.  I use this
technique for a number of different lists.  I frequently get emails of ticklers to remind me of
things that I originally thought about earlier.  The key idea here is to have a list of topics and a
random selection.  You could do the same thing by shuffling 3 x 5 cards with ideas.

**Say in fewer words**

I like to make complex subjects simple.  One way to do this is to describe something and then try to
capture the same ideas with half of the words.  Is it possible to get the same idea in 5 words?  Try
to think in sound bites.

**List of current problems**

Consider keeping a list of problems that need think-time.  Pick a problem and analyze it.  Try all
your best techniques: pros-and-cons, return on investment, brainstorming, SWOT (strength, weakness,
opportunity, threat).  Bang away at the problem for an hour and see if any new solutions pop out.


